- [Instructor] Leveraging build plugins
is very straightforward.
And we've actually already done this.
When using the Maven package command,
we ran through many goals
on several core plugins for Maven.
Build plugins are the most utilized plugins
in the Maven build life cycles.
In fact, the build plugins participate
in all three of the default life cycles for Maven.
The output of build plugins can be used for reporting.
The output is also used for artifact creation
and the clean plugin is technically a build plugin as well.
You can see a list of plugins,
both Apache and third party,
on the Apache website.
There are really three types of build plugins:
core, packaging, and tools.
While some reporting plugins
also have build aspects,
we will focus on these.
The core plugins, as you might imagine,
are the most used.
The compiler plugin, for instance,
is responsible for using the JDK
to compile the source code into byte code.
The install plugin is responsible
for taking the packaged artifact
and installing it into the local M2 repository
on your machine,
usually located in your Home directory, /.M2.
The deploy plugin is responsible
for tacking the packaged artifact
and pushing it to a remote repository
for others to use.
The validation plugin is used
for validating your source code.
And there are several types of validation plugins.
The packaging plugins are responsible
for taking the compiled byte code
and packaging it into a structure
that can be consumed by the JVM
or other Java system, like an application server.
The JAR plugin is the default packaging plugin
and produces a JAR file
that can be loaded by a class loader of the JVM.
A WAR is a package that can be consumed
by the web application server, like Tomcat,
to run a web application.
An EAR is an enterprise archive,
which often consists of multiple JARs, WARs,
and sometimes EJBs.
This is usually used for
large enterprise application servers.
A SHADE is a special JAR file
that includes all of the classes
from your code as well as the dependency classes you need
for a so-called uber-JAR.
This often becomes an executable JAR file
that is self-contained to ease portability.
Now, while this is technically a packaging plugin,
it is not one that you can actually specify
in the package block.
And we'll show you how to use the SHADE plugin
later on in this course.
Now, the tools plugins don't really fit
into a single box.
The variety of uses makes them
sort of a catch-all category.
Some of the most popular are those associated with releases,
where an artifact is stamped with the version,
deployed, SEM is tagged,
and then the version is incremented.
There are also plugins for signing JARs
to prevent tampering.
The dependency JAR is a build tool
that copies, analyzes, and builds trees of dependencies,
and the list goes on.
We're going to focus a little more
on the most common use cases
of all of these in coming videos.